---
LinkTitle: Resrouces
---

<article class="docs-entry">
<h1 id="resources">Resources<a class="headerlink" href="#resources" title="Permanent link"> </a></h1>
<p>A resource is extra data used by the game, and is stored in a data file, instead of being in the code. Resources are contained in the <code>assets</code> directory on the classpath. In the default mod development kit, this directory is under the <code>src/main/resources</code> directory of the project. It includes things such as models, textures, and localization files.</p>
<p>When multiple resource packs are enabled, they are merged. Generally, files from resource packs at the top of the stack override those below; however, for certain files, such as localization files, data is actually merged contentwise. Mods actually define resource packs too, in their <code>resources</code> directories, but they are seen as subsets of the &ldquo;Default&rdquo; resource pack. Mod resource packs cannot be disabled, but they can be overriden by other resource packs.</p>
<p>All resources should have snake case paths and filenames (lowercase, using &ldquo;_&rdquo; for word boundaries), which is enforced in 1.11 and above.</p>
<h2 id="resourcelocation"><code>ResourceLocation</code><a class="headerlink" href="#resourcelocation" title="Permanent link"> </a></h2>
<p>Minecraft identifies resources using <code>ResourceLocation</code>s. A <code>ResourceLocation</code> contains two parts: a namespace and a path. It generally points to the resource at <code>assets/&lt;namespace&gt;/&lt;ctx&gt;/&lt;path&gt;</code>, where <code>ctx</code> is a context-specific path fragment that depends on how the <code>ResourceLocation</code> is being used. When a <code>ResourceLocation</code> is written/read as/from a string, it is seen as <code>&lt;namespace&gt;:&lt;path&gt;</code>. If the namespace and the colon are left out, then when the string is read into an <code>ResourceLocation</code> the namespace will almost always default to <code>"minecraft"</code>. A mod should put its resources into a namespace with the same name as its modid (E.g. a mod with id <code>examplemod</code> should place its resources in <code>assets/examplemod</code>, and <code>ResourceLocation</code>s pointing to those files would look like <code>examplemod:&lt;path&gt;</code>.). This is not a requirement, and in some cases it can be desirable to use a different (or even more than one) namespace. <code>ResourceLocation</code>s are used outside the resource system, too, as they happen to be a great way to uniquely identify objects (e.g. <a href="../registries/index.htm">registries</a>).</p>
</article>